one of the coolest things about ik
booster is the ability to have the power
of an ik rig without the drawbacks of in
flexibility so if you want to have a
character interact with an object or a
surface you don't need a fancy rig to do
this this supposedly complicated hand
rig took less than a minute for me to
set up here i'll be explaining how to
fix command works and give you some
practical usage examples as well just to
get our feet wet let's use a very
simplified setup say we need to
temporarily have ik function to make
this rigs right arm interact with the
table as the rest of the body moves
using the fixed command on the wrist
let's see what happens when we move this
guy's torso note how the wrist is still
rotating we don't want this so a second
fix is required at the tip of the hand
to prevent the hand itself from rotating
now when we move the figure the hand is
firmly planted on the table we can also
pivot the elbow or move any other part
of the character by clicking and
dragging and it'll react like you expect
it to the majority of ik booster users
get stuck at this point this looks very
cool but there's an extra step required
to make the fixed command work in
animation by doing some animation we can
see the rig behaving like one would
expect on the keyframes but when we
scrub the timeline after the fact the
arm is floating around this drove me
crazy for the longest time the fixed
command does this because ik booster is
a part-time ik system essentially
meaning that the only time I k goes into
effect is when you're manipulating
something this is also the reason why
you can have an insanely complex ik
booster rig yet have zero overhead or
choppiness in your scene anyways back to
the subject so how can we get this hand
the stick in place during the animation
the answer is baking the motion stay
with me here because there's more to it
than meets the eye multi selecting items
in ik booster is achieved by holding
down the control key not the shift key
this is most handy for fixing or unfit
seeing many items at once note that you
can temporarily disable all fixing by
either holding the control key as you
manipulate an item or going into the ik
booster menu and unchecking global FX ik
by the way while we're here I'd like to
leave the ik bind option unchecked to
avoid unwanted slipping while moving
around and manipulating my rigs I'm not
going to cover what it actually does in
this tutorial but leaving it unchecked
can save you a lot of headaches anyhow
so using the ctrl key we need to
multi-select the tip in the base of the
hand I want to stress that what you have
selected while baking is critical to
making it work properly you have to have
the fixed item selected while baking
make certain that your key frame mode is
set to current otherwise you'll end up
baking parts of your character that
don't need baking to bake an ik booster
you simply hold down the right mouse
button and drag across the timeline when
you let go of the button you get a
pop-up list that essentially asks what
you'd like to do with the range of
keyframes select bake keys hit OK and
it's done it works beautifully note that
you can actually undo baking a Nike
booster which is pretty damn cool but
there's yet another question that this
brings up what if you want to make
changes after baking and you're past the
point of being able to undo stuff well
there's different ways to approach this
but i'll give you the solutions that i
use in production say we want to change
the orientation of this guy's elbow to
make a change to this ik animation after
baking the simplest way is to set your
key frame mode to child select the
highest part of the ik chain and using
the same right click drag method we're
going to select the option delete keys
hit OK and now we can repose the
character at the start frame andrey bake
that time range if you don't do the
delete action first the changes that you
make in the first frame will not take
effect upon rebating now I can imagine
that some people would want to save the
baking process as the final step to
completing their animations so that they
can make changes without having to do
any key frames my suggestion in this
case is to utilize big spots as a visual
guide to help you keep track of what
parts of your animation need baking you
can set bake spots via the right-click
menu or you can do it even faster by
holding the Alt key as you drag across
the timeline I recommend against
performing the actual baking action
through baked spots for various reasons
that I'm not going to go into here just
know that most of the time it is far
more convenient to just use the
right-click multi-select method for
baking finally there's something that I
should mention before wrapping up this
tutorial because I feel the topic is
related if you've watched my ik booster
starter guide video I mentioned how
these keys down here stand for global
access disabling for ik booster controls
it turns out that this function is very
handy when used in conjunction with the
fixed command say we want to move this
characters hands around but we want them
to not lift from the table as we do so
all you have to do is click on the Y so
that it's grayed out and look what
happens all of my movements are
involving only the X and Z planes so if
you've ever needed to restrict what I k
booster is doing for control that's not
a problem remember that you can actually
hotkey this as well so you don't have to
move the mouse around as much that's the
gist of the fix command obviously it can
be used to help you pose a character or
chain of bones as well and there's some
other little things that the fix command
can do to enhance your control that the
average user will probably stumbleupon
okay that's a wrap hopefully everyone
found this tutorial helpful if you'd
like to check out other can join Studios
tutorials or our animated sci-fi series
of Delia just click the playlists in
this video or see the links in the
video's description until next time this
is ryan roy signing off thanks for
watching